this is a preview of a painting API that
that I've been working on that it's kind
of picking up a lot of work that that
was done by by a number of folks in the
last few last few months and kind of
it's a goal to kind of land really
settle on it on the API that's working
well enough for most of our use cases
and just ship it already now there's a
lot of opportunities for four different
products in the ffs landscape to to
leverage this kind of a pinning API so I
want to kind of use this talk to give a
bit of the motivation for what the
spinning API came from walkthrough a bit
of the work that was done before on kind
of fleshing this out talk a bit about
the scope of the problem it turns out to
be a very very tricky and thorny problem
maybe talk a little bit about some
interface wishes that that I've been
collecting from from a number of folks
across the iphone's ecosystem and then
talk about kind of the roadmap going
forward in in in terms of the kind of
proposed API changes for the pinning API
so this this can be something pretty
significant and impactful long term but
this change is gonna take a bit of a
while it's going to be staged and faced
so you know at the very beginning
nothing is gonna nothing significant is
gonna kind of change but hopefully what
you see today is going to be gonna be
interesting and it's gonna give all
pinning services an interesting way of
of potentially like having to write a
lot less code and and being able to use
common tools alright let's talk about
motivation so the this is kind of a
long-standing issue a lot a lot of the
spinning services are familiar with this
where where there's kind of a goal of
being able to to use the same the same
API because part users and applications
having to be built against one API then
find it hard to differentially switch to
a better service in another way so
there's kind of like an API lock in
there that's that some potentially may
be benefiting one party but it
definitely hurts everybody else in
ecosystem and there's also other
benefits where there's a lot of tools
that end up having to be written
for one pending service and another
pinning service would like to use them
but now the because the IP is not the
same then then things don't quite work
so this is clearly a case where having a
standardised common API would be ideal
especially for any kind of tooling
around pin sets that that is just fully
open source so anything that I'm that it
that is not related to a service dealing
with pin sets would love to be able to
use kind of some standard standard
tooling it's also the case that ipfs
cluster needed something like this and
that's the cluster team came up with
with a version of this of this pinning
API that will describe in fact they did
most of the work that met here so this
is mostly trying to kind of close some
of those conversations and then get to
the next next step I like to flag that
uh applications like desktop and
companion need this kind of thing you'll
hear more from Molly later on about how
this kind of API can be used in in
products to make the experience of users
much much better better and gave create
a bunch of opportunities for pinning
services that weren't there before
so there's a there's a lot an issue on
github you can go and check out and read
where most of the work around this API
was done and there's a really good
conversation looking through a whole you
know different different set of
different set of like constraints front
around the API and this just picks up
from for most of the work there so big
shout out to to Adrienne who did most of
this and a number of other folks you can
you see their user names here and and
and also Hector who I think is not an
issue but but end up providing a lot of
the thoughts that been up contributing
to this API so there's a link in that
issue too to this Steiger API and and
this has most of the of the feel for for
one of the proposals that I want to move
forward today and you can go check it
out it's kind of like a rest oriented
way of just address being able to change
pins in some service and the idea is
that it's kind of like a standalone
thing is very thin it's just kind of an
easy thing to bind to part of the
discussion in the in the issue though
talked about how it would be really nice
and really useful to be able to have
this API in different flavors meaning
having it unrest or having it in your PC
or potentially having it in in in shell
scripts or things like that so one of
the takeaways for me was it's really
critical to define the data structures
and the semantics and then come up with
two or three different flavors that are
the most common that people are mostly
going to want and then just never get
around that unfortunately given given
all of the different ways in which
people people use these tents of api's
it's unlikely that we're gonna find
exactly one so I think going with with a
few flavors is is the right the right
thing as I mentioned earlier you'll hear
more formally later about how how this
can be used on a number of number of
products and so on so therefore all of
them I want to look a little bit about
the cluster use case which is that the
way that cluster manages pin sets is
that
it sort of keeps say a penalty log and
uses distributed consensus to agree on
what has been pin or what has not been
penned and so there's a cluster run
second sentence process it needs to be
wrapped so now it uses a I think all
Merkel's here duty to agree on on the
pins that are added and removed to the
pencil and so you can think of each one
of these entries as extending the log
and either having an add or remove of a
pin and that pin them being you know a
CID to like a whole whole large graph
this model ends up being extremely
useful for a lot of things so this is
not like the API that we just saw but
but the ability to describe a data
structure in this kind of thread
oriented way it's extremely useful
because it means that parties can follow
follow up inside and then just get a
feed of changes and then adjust
accordingly and it also means that you
can serialize all of this all of these
updates and then reason about them later
so the API isn't does not so an API that
thought of that would potentially use a
structure would um would offer the
capabilities of looking at the entire
history of events which which is a
something that a lot of parties care
about in terms of pin sets some parties
care about just knowing that the thing
is pinned other parties care about
knowing exactly who pins something at
what point in time and whether or not it
has and when it was on pin this is
especially useful in any kind of
collaborative setting where a group of
different parties is coming together to
back up some important data set so
let's scope of the problem depending APR
today is both kind of local and remote
there's a local pinning command and then
there's of course remote pinning
services pinning and how we do it has a
bunch of implications and applications
because applications have to tell ipfs
to keep stuff around or applications
have to you know hope that the data that
they need is there
it also has applications and services
because how this API is defined in sub
shaping a lot of infrastructure and
services right so so how this API works
ends up affecting what a lot of folks in
running infrastructure have to end up
having to build so at the end of the day
pinning is a very key architectural
component and and today local pinning
has a few problems so for example the
way the pinning is set up now if you if
you call if two different applications
pin the same the same CID what will
happen is that the first of all succeed
the second one succeed because it's
already been pinned but then if one of
them removes that remove the pin it'll
remove it for both so so this is the
this is just a problem that needs to be
fixed where it should be possible for
different users or different
applications to pin the same CID
independently there's a few other kind
of tricky issues like that of this kind
of nature but that's kind of the most
concrete example most useful concrete
example there's a couple of the things
that make pinning hard which is thinking
about access control not just in terms
of who gets to pin something especially
in kind of settings where and that many
parties or many applications might have
control or or might be able to have some
kind of access to an episode but also in
cases where you want to pin something
but that doesn't mean you want to serve
it to somebody else or you want to pin
something but you only want to serve it
to a subset of users and so access
control is kind of tied to the nature of
the data that that people are asking to
pin and so there's some ranges of
policies related to content that are not
directly related to pinning but they're
kind of adjacent depending and so
whatever solution ends up happening for
pinning will great
form the access control for for content
similarly you have the same kind of
effect on content routing announcements
so today ITF estes is a just announces
the content that that you add for the
most part unless you you turn this off
but content writing announcements are
sort of like an all-or-nothing thing you
either
announcer you don't announce and it go
nouns then you announce everything from
the get-go you know it was it was a goal
to to have policies eventually where you
you're able to describe what you want to
announce and how more carefully now the
tooling to do that and the kind of edges
of that problem are pretty complicated
as well and so it's not even now it's
not super clear exactly how you would
want to do this there's a few ideas
floating around the community but but
nothing concrete has emerged where we're
clearly you know we have a great API for
for how to how to think about
announcements but again it's related to
pinning and it's adjacent depending and
whatever we do with pinning is going to
end up affecting this so so it's useful
to kind of think about it as part of it
so this is a really large scope and and
the problem here is that finding the
right solution that hits all of these
things well on the get-go before we kind
of have the time to try it out with a
bunch of applications and use it to
solve rate problems it's likely gonna
produce something else that's probably
wrong so the the key thing to recognize
here is is to really break it apart into
different problems and to phase it in
such in a way but also remember these
things are very related meaning that
whatever we end up doing for pinning is
gonna have implications for applications
services and so on all right so with
that although that kind of caveat I'll
go through some a few wishes that for
for this API and this is these are not
just a I just minded this is kind of
collected from from a number of notes
across the community so first off pins
should be able pins should be a
first-class object so today pins are
kind of as this large pin set but you
can't really refer to a pin the same way
the same way that you can refer to say a
branch in
or a tag and get so so it's clear that a
lot of interfaces would like pin to be a
first-class object and and I love that
pinning services do this so penny
services today treat pins as a
first-class object have a bunch of
metadata associated with pins and and
have sort of that it should also be the
case that pins should have a unique
handle to solve that problem that we
described before around to applications
spinning the same thing and then only
one of them removing it and deleting it
for the other party it pains had a
unique handle then and you know two
objects will be created and each
application would be able to remove that
then accordingly
we should also be able to keep the
history of how the pins have changes so
today ipfs doesn't do this cluster does
it but it'd be really really useful in
ideas proper to be able to to understand
how the pin size changes of course that
history might need to be garbage
collected over time so this might be in
kind of a ref log style thing or
directly in the data structure of the
pin set it should also be easy for tools
to explore and follow the pen set so
this means things like cluster and other
tools like that should be able to see
the changes in the pin set and kind of
subscribe to two events that are
happening and this would would make the
this would greatly simplify the tooling
the needs to get built around some of
these things because having an API that
is supposed to be real-time and it's
supposed to catch every event is more
brittle and error-prone than if you can
always refer to a log of all of all
changes and you know that you've caught
up to the changes and you know that you
have consistency on both sides so it's
easy to effectively mess up the pinning
a pinning API if some event gets gets
lost or or or succeeds without the other
party knowing or something like that
having a log is very very useful it's
also be the case the pins should be
scoped to each application instance so
right now the pinning API in in tooling
ends up creating a very large scope
where people haven't on the order of you
know thousands of pins and so on when in
reality usually they just want to keep
around whatever they consider their
local files so like EMFs or the files
Palace tree so that could just be one
pin it's a pin that changes a lot but
but I perhaps it could be could be one
pin or maybe a few likewise there's
other applications that might want to
maybe keep track of a data set together
but wouldn't want to keep you know
hundreds of pins separately we just want
to have one pin so it'd be ideal if
these kinds of interfaces supporter that
kind of thing now
the one of the other things is that it
would be very useful for the spin object
to track some metadata on pins when they
were created who created this which user
or application created a spin and kind
of and so for cluster or other use cases
what kind of replication factors this
would imply and replication factors
might mean you know create independent
replicas it might mean the Razr coding
there's a whole host of potential things
there so ideally we should if we gain
the ability to just assign some metadata
on ten then um then that should be that
should be good enough now for remote up
api's again we also want that
pin pin should be a first-class object
we should be able to individually paint
on pit objects we should be able to pin
it on pin groups of pins and in like the
cluster use case we should be able to
follow a pin set now it's worth noting
that different services will want to do
things differently some services are
built today in kind of the individual
pin on pin operation and we'll want to
continue doing that and other services
will want to kind of follow the pin set
type of type of approach so this really
suggests that the there really are
should be to two different porcelains
over the same kind of underlying api it
should also be noted that the different
services have constraints over their
authentication so while many groups
would love to be able to kind of arrive
at a single authentication system that's
actually basically impossible and
different services will require
different kind of authentication systems
so whatever this API does it should
either have off around it or should just
pass opaque authentication tokens
this also is relevant in terms of
payments so you think of passing
payments through these authentication
systems not just uh not just say token
identifying a party you you might want
to pass an opaque payment because this
could be a stripe thing this could be a
cryptocurrency this could be all hosts
of all kinds of things and so the
whatever the we do in the API it should
be compatible with all the different
altitudes that people use all the
different kind of payment systems with
and you should just have a way of doing
that we should also be able to
distinguish pinning explicitly from
pushing or pulling so pushing or pulling
is the the process of pushing a you know
a whole graph to another party or
pulling a whole graph for another party
that operation might be expensive and
it's altogether different from the
intent of hey I would like you to keep
the stuff around and so having an API
that actually distinguishes those those
three is a useful and important thing
this this is a thing that came up in the
in the threaded conversation and in
github separately we want to be able to
stay connected to the pinning service so
there's a lot of applications that would
like to push things to depending service
fairly quickly or we like to fetch
things from a pinning service that's
associated with with the application and
it ends up being that the current
Liberty connection management might
eventually close the connection to the
pinning service as part of its normal
kind of connection garbage collection
and so this is a useful thing because it
keeps a connection numbers down but
ideally we like to kind of force those
connections to stay open and if they get
closed for whatever reason try to reopen
them this is similar to other needs in
ifs where it'd be really useful to kind
of maintain connections between cluster
nodes or be able to maintain connections
between between kind of like peering
peering systems that need to be able to
have traffic flowing so painting
services and the pinning API would
greatly benefit from from having a
liquid to be facility for for
establishing a connection like kind of a
persistent long-term connection and then
it should be possible to use the same
pinning API to pin to multiple services
so ideally applications and tools can be
built against one API which might have
many flavors but it's the semantically
the same thing and the data structure is
the same thing but then kind of gets
consumed and used by them by a lot of
different services so another another
piece of this is to to kind of
distinguish the economic transactions
that we're talking about so when we talk
about pinning we were explicitly saying
hey please store this data but we're
implicitly also saying hey please get
the data from somewhere potentially for
me
hey also please serve the data back to
me at some point and potentially please
also serve the data to others there's a
lot of economic arrangements that have
very different costs all embedded into
one and so this makes it very difficult
for pinning service providers to
distinguish the costs for these
different different features so one of
the goals here is to be able to
distinguish these so that pinning
service operators could assign different
costs to all of these operations or not
but at least have the flexibility to be
able to do it so whatever we're doing in
in these api is we should be able to
make these things distinct so roughly we
have kind of are narrowing down on the
idea that hey we we have some kind of
push to explicitly transfer a graph to a
remote that may or may not be a free
operation we want to explicitly Express
the intent to store and back up some
data that may or may not be a free
operation and we want to express the we
want to be able to pull and download a
graph from a particular remote that may
or may not be a free operation and that
may be my graph or it might be somebody
else's graph and so this pull needs to
carry some kind of authentication
potentially because the the that
transaction so it's not just a pin
operation that needs to carry
authentication it's the pull transaction
as well that needs to carry
authentication and it should also be
possible for the pin object to express
some some intent to publish and so what
this means is that I should be able to
to agree with with a pinning service
that
- please store this stuff and serve it
out to other people for free and charge
me so so that kind of intent should be
able to be kind of expressed either in
the metadata of the pin or in some other
facility in the NE okay all right so
there's a lot of wishes there there's a
lot of different things that the people
would want out of this API and so what
what ends up making sense here is to
kind of decompose a problem
into these different different pieces
you're starting to see kind of the shape
of it emerge and then see what we can do
in terms of kind of a roadmap to to kind
of satisfy the most important needs
sooner and kind of learn more about the
designs that am i reliable and then kind
of
pushing some directions later so um I
kind of narrowed it down to six proposed
changes and so and these are this will
get written up and put on when I get hub
right now it's it's it's a mostly in
notes and so on so this has to get well
structured into kind of an RFC style
proposal but but I'll kind of give the
brief summary here because I'm really
interested in people's feedback later
today on in the worship time so so
change one is to eventually kind of
enter in a local tuning API introduce a
pending object to attract metadata so we
already mentioned that earlier so what
won't go into it again and the pin set
should evolve to be tracked these
objects as opposed to just the C IDs
directly they should also solve the kind
of that problem that we highlighted
earlier then it should be possible to
create a pin API for services or tools
to handle most simple cases so most
services today just have kind of like a
crud style API around being able to
create read update and delete pins so
that kind of basic simple thing should
just work with a simple API and that
could be around an IP first node or it
could so it could be able to miss no
traffic first node or it could be could
be some other servers and so this is
thankfully what was mostly done by
already and so we can and and this is
the most urgent thing so most of the
community really needs this the other
stuff is more nice to happen and and
good for for the future we also need a
pin thread API and so that means it
would be extremely useful for kind of
these forward-looking cases things like
cluster and and a number of applications
to be able to have an API that gives us
the entire data structure over the
history of what happened to the pin set
as things get added and removed and so
on and for parties to be able to follow
that real time and ideally kind of
replicate the whole thing so these kind
of thread objects and the pin objects
should all kind of be I Cody equity
grass
it's worth noting that these are not
sequential so these different proposed
changes could happen in any order
they're gonna end up using the same pin
data structure but we could go about
building this out in different order
order and so I propose we go through the
know p0 of creating the simple API for
services need and then kind of move from
there there's three other changes and
and these are not exactly pinning
related but they're adjacent and so one
of them is to add a push-pull API so
thankfully this is already kind of
partly in flight because of the graphs
and integrations there's a whole kind of
data transfer component that um that a
number of us have been working on that
makes it easy to reason about pushing
and pulling entire IP LD graphs and
associating authentication or payments
through that so this is a component that
was needed in in in fact going to be
able to move around I feel D graphs and
be able to do payment channels with them
but it's also needed in in a BFS to be
able to kind of authenticate content of
saying hey I really only want to be able
to provide this particular party and
being able to authenticate that that
party becomes a useful feature so most
of the code for this is it's written
already
it just has to make its way into a BFS
we also want a way to persistent
personally managed peers and so this is
a been a number of issues around this we
just need to kind of formalize something
and then kind of kind of push it it's
it's a valuable thing for all pinning
services and and we should kind of aim
to aim to do that at some point and the
last one is something that haven't
mentioned before but it kind of struck
me as as it struck me that a lot of
these api's are really working around
the fact that I profess right now does
not have a way of easily delegating API
calls to other IP festivals so an IP FS
node cannot cause a remote call in
another IP fest node of course because
of trust reasons but you might be able
to do it in an authenticated way so
having an authenticated remote operation
API could solve a lot of these kinds of
concerns that however is a it's a huge
undertaking and it requires kind of
thinking very carefully about which API
is you might want to do this with
but this might be external useful
cleaning services because it might not
be just hand it might be a whole bunch
of other operations that suddenly become
available as an easy service without
having to write a lot of code all right
so the last part is when I have
mentioned the but what the APS are
looking like I'm running early so I'll
um I'll I'll show you the slice now
instead of kind of going in that through
it I'll just describe the the for the
workshop today the pinning service API
this is kind of what we will be
discussing really landing on on kind of
the crowd operations and then I'll
mention the that for the thread so
there's a whole bunch of requirements
here I won't go into jail for them if
you're familiar with the cluster use
case you'll know it but we after
thinking about this very carefully and
thinking about the the whole shape of
the problem and the importance of ACLs
and so on I landed on the fact that
textile threads are exactly the right
data structure it covers almost all of
the use cases if not all of the use
cases these cases that we'd been worried
about it's an IP LD graph it allows
creating a lot an event log of updates
of as and deletes and so on and it has
built in all of the kind of encryption
tooling to reason about being able to
read or write to different parts of it
and/or be able to replicate all of it
without being able to read it which is a
whole bunch of the heavy-lift around
access controls for replicating clusters
so so that kind of thing so it's likely
it's very likely that the whole pinning
thread API is going to turn into into
the textile thread and we still have to
run a bunch of experiments tried for a
type that try to use it and so on and do
the heavy lift but first of all like a
huge thanks to to that style for
creating all this and and basically
implementing it you know all of the
complicated logic around this there's
likely the pinning a guy in in a in
obvious eventually will kind of move in
this direction
and if you haven't read this in
definitely definitely go go do it it's
gonna change how you're writing a lot of
applications alright so for road for
brief roadmap we'll have the worship
later today we'll talk about this some
more we'll then I'll be formalizing this
these changes and proposals and
submitting them and then hopefully do
the the simple pin service API soon
because that's what people need the most
and then later on in in the later part
of 2020 we can go towards towards making
decisions on on the pin thread API and
all that kind of stuff we could we could
move faster on this depending on on
people's desire to go unimplemented
I know the the the ffs team is has all
hands full so I thinking the pin service
API is kind of like a critical piece
that we could probably do do soon
everything else will will kind of get
staged over time alright thank you